== Submission ==

"Submitted paper #291."
1 Aug 2014 23:02:55 EDT  |  SHA-1 4144be5936e1d3c43a15370159943905b42c6d46

https://ndss2015.ccs.neu.edu/paper/291?cap=0291a-wCJLImNffk

== Abstract ==

We describe "domain fronting," an application-layer technique for HTTPS that hides the remote endpoint of a communication for the purpose of censorship circumvention. Domain fronting enables communication that is apparently with an allowed domain, but actually with a forbidden domain. The key idea is the use of different domain names at different layers of communication. One domain is used on the "outside" of an HTTPS request---in the DNS request and TLS Server Name Indication---while another is used on the "inside"---in the HTTP Host header, invisible to the censor under HTTPS encryption. We identify a number of hard-to-block web services, like content delivery networks and Google, that support fronting because they ignore the outside of an HTTPS request and dispatch it internally according to the Host header. If a censor is unable to distinguish fronted circumvention traffic and non-fronted ordinary traffic, then blocking fronted traffic means blocking an entire web service, with resulting expensive collateral damage.

We have implemented domain fronting in a system called meek, a pluggable transport for Tor. meek combines fronting with an HTTP-based tunneling proxy. The meek server's external interface is that of an ordinary web server. Domain fronting enables a client to reach the server, which is presumed blocked by the censor. The server receives HTTP requests, decodes them, and feeds their payloads into a Tor relay, returning downstream data in the HTTP response. A censor watching the communication sees only a sequence of HTTPS requests to an allowed domain. We describe the results of an initial deployment. meek, or something based on it, has been adopted by other circumvention systems.

Hiding the endpoint and obscuring byte patterns are important parts of blocking-resistant communication, but there are other, more subtle considerations. We describe what we have done to disguise other traffic "tells" in meek, such as using a real web browser as a tool for making fronted HTTPS requests, in order to disguise meek's TLS fingerprint. We argue that these measures, combined with domain fronting, increase the censor's effort beyond simple one-shot blocking techniques such as IP address blocking, and into the realm of more expensive, less reliable statistical tests.


== Topics ==

Privacy and anonymity technologies
Security for peer-to-peer and overlay network systems


== PC ==

Admad Sadeghi
Alina Oprea
Apu Kapadia
Ari Juels
Ben Livshits
Christian Kreibich
Christopher Kruegel
David Brumley
David Wagner
Davide Balzarotti
Dongyan Xu
Engin Kirda
Georgios Portakalidis
Gianluca Stringhini
Guo Fei
Hayawardh Vijayakumar
Heng Yin
Ivan Martinovic
Juan Caballero
Long Lu
Michael Bailey
Nicolas Cristin
Patrick Traynor
Prateek Mittal
Roberto Perdisci
Robin Sommer
Somesh Jha
Srdjan Capkun
Stelios Sidiroglou-Douskos
Stephen McCamant
Tim Leek
Ting-Fang Yen
Venkat Venkatakrishnan
Wenke Lee
William Enck
William Robertson
Xiao-Feng Wang
Yongdae Kim
Zhenkai Liang
Zhichun Li
Zhiqiang Lin


== Conflicts ==

"...past advisors and students, people with the same affiliation, and any
recent (~2 years) coauthors and collaborators."

Christian Kreibich - ICSI
David Wagner - Berkeley
Robin Sommer - ICSI
